README.md, before:

# Web books initiatives

A list of different initiatives of *web books*, listed chronologically (creation dates).

## Definition of the web book concept
A web book, or webbook, is a book readable in a browser: a collection of organised documents, structured in parts (like chapters), with some navigation tools (like a table of contents or TOC), readable on the web and linkable. There are different levels of technological efficiency: mobile friendly (aka *responsive*), offline readable, Progressive Web Application (PWA), etc.

## Documentation
Behind this list, a french article about the *web book* concept: [Le livre web, une autre forme du livre numérique](https://www.quaternum.net//2016/10/24/le-livre-web-une-autre-forme-du-livre-numerique/) by Antoine Fauchié, october 24th 2016.


## List of web book initiatives

### Adaptive Web Design, First Edition, Aaron Gustafson, 2011 [en]
A book about the progressive enhancement philosophy.  
[https://adaptivewebdesign.info/1st-edition/read/](https://adaptivewebdesign.info/1st-edition/read/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### HTML5 For Web Designers, Jeremy Keith, 2011 [en]
A book about HTML5.  
[https://html5forwebdesigners.com/](https://html5forwebdesigners.com/)

[Informations about the project](https://adactio.com/journal/10754)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### The Shape of Design, Frank Chimero, 2012 [en]
A book about design.  
[http://read.shapeofdesignbook.com/](http://read.shapeofdesignbook.com/)

`responsive`

### Getting Started With MailChimp, MailChimp, 2013 [en]
A guide about MailChimp, the email marketing service.  
[https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/getting-started-with-mailchimp/html/](https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/getting-started-with-mailchimp/html/)

MailChimp makes available a serie of guides, they are all web books: [https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/](https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/)

`responsive` `one page`

### High Performance Browser Networking, Ilya Grigorik, 2013 [en]
A book about browser performance.  
[https://hpbn.co/](https://hpbn.co/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### Practical Typography, Matthew Butterick, 2013 [en]
A book about (practical) typography.  
[http://practicaltypography.com/](http://practicaltypography.com/)

`responsive`

### Designing for the Web, Mark Boulton, 2014 [en]
A book about web design, or *designing for the web*.  
[http://designingfortheweb.co.uk/](http://designingfortheweb.co.uk/)

`responsive` `EPUB`

### Eloquent JavaScript, Marijn Haverbeke, 2014 [en]
A book about JavaScript.  
[http://eloquentjavascript.net/](http://eloquentjavascript.net/)

`responsive`

### From Papyrus to Pixels, The Economist, 2014 [en]
A book about the future of the book.  
[http://www.economist.com/news/essays/21623373-which-something-old-and-powerful-encountered-vault](http://www.economist.com/news/essays/21623373-which-something-old-and-powerful-encountered-vault)

`responsive` `audio version` `skeuomorphism`

### Greek and Roman Political Ideas, Melissa Lane, 2014 [en]
A book about politic.  
[https://www.pelicanbooks.com/greek-and-roman-political-ideas](https://www.pelicanbooks.com/greek-and-roman-political-ideas)

Other web books in the Pelican collection: [https://www.pelicanbooks.com/](https://www.pelicanbooks.com/)

`responsive` `paywall`

### Le design des programmes, Anthony Masure, 2014 [fr]
Doctoral thesis of Anthony Masure.  
[http://www.softphd.com/](http://www.softphd.com/)

`responsive`

### Radius, 2014 [fr]
A collective and fictional book by the french publisher Walrus.  
[http://www.radius-experience.com/](http://www.radius-experience.com/)

`responsive` `paywall`

### The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web, Richard Rutter, 2014 [en]
A book about web typography.  
[http://webtypography.net/](http://webtypography.net/)

`responsive`

### Atom Flight Manual, Atom, 2015 [en]
A guide about the text/code editor Atom.io.  
[http://flight-manual.atom.io/](http://flight-manual.atom.io/)

`modifications open`

### Atomic Design, Brad Frost, 2015 [en]
A book about *atomic design*, a process of design from Brad Frost.  
[http://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/](http://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/)

[Repository](https://github.com/bradfrost/atomic-design).

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Le livre 010101, Marie Lebert, 2015 [fr]
A book about ebook history.  
[https://www.010101book.net/fr/](https://www.010101book.net/fr/)

[Informations about the project](https://www.quaternum.net/2015/10/26/creation-d-un-livre-web-le-livre-010101/), [source files](https://github.com/antoinentl/010101book.net).

`responsive` `offline readable`

### Professional Web Typography, Donny Truong, 2015 [en]
A book about web typography.  
[https://prowebtype.com/](https://prowebtype.com/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### Sass Guidelines, Hugo Giraudel, 2015 [en+fr+...]
A book about Sass, in many languages.  
[https://sass-guidelin.es/](https://sass-guidelin.es/)

[Source files](https://github.com/HugoGiraudel/sass-guidelines).

`responsive` `one page` `modifications open`

### Startup Playbook, Sam Altman, 2015 [en]
A book about how to build a startup.  
[http://playbook.samaltman.com/](http://playbook.samaltman.com/)

`responsive`

### Designing for Performance, Lara Callender Hogan, 2016 [en]
A book about design and performance.  
[http://designingforperformance.com/](http://designingforperformance.com/)

[An article about the book's design process](http://larahogan.me/blog/coding-a-book/).

`responsive`

### Introduction to Metadata, Third Edition, Edited by Murtha Baca, 2016 [en]
A book about metadata.  
[http://www.getty.edu/publications/intrometadata/](http://www.getty.edu/publications/intrometadata/)

[Informations about the Getty Publications' workflow](http://blogs.getty.edu/iris/an-editors-view-of-digital-publishing/)

`responsive`

### MaintainableCSS, Adam Silver, 2016 [en]
A book about writing modular, scalable, and maintainable CSS.  
[http://maintainablecss.com/](http://maintainablecss.com/)

`responsive`

### Node.js, Bonnes pratiques pour la programmation JavaScript applicative, universelle et modulaire, Thomas Parisot, 2016 [fr]
A book about Node.js.  
[https://oncletom.io/node.js](https://oncletom.io/node.js)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Resilient web design, Jeremy Keith, 2016 [fr]
A book about web design.  
[https://resilientwebdesign.com/](https://resilientwebdesign.com/)

[Informations about the project](https://adactio.com/journal/11608), [source files](https://github.com/adactio/resilientwebdesign).

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application` `modifications open` `EPUB`

### Typography Handbook, Kenneth Wang, 2016 [en]
A book about best web typographic practices.  
[http://typographyhandbook.com/](http://typographyhandbook.com/)

`responsive` `one page`

### Un petit livre à l'usage des parents, pour mieux comprendre leurs enfants à travers les jeux., De la part de Lego, 2016 [fr]
Digitization of a Lego manual by [Thomas Gasc](https://methylbro.fr/).  
[http://lego.methylbro.fr/](http://lego.methylbro.fr/)

[Informations about the project](https://methylbro.fr/aventure/sudweb-2016-les-valeurs-de-lego/).

`responsive` `one page` `digitization`

### Vietnamese typography, Donny Truong, 2016 [en]
A book about vietnamese typography.  
[https://vietnamesetypography.com/](https://vietnamesetypography.com/)

`responsive` `offline readable`

### Programming Design Systems, Rune Madsen
A book about "the new foundations of graphic design".  
[https://programmingdesignsystems.com/](https://programmingdesignsystems.com/)

[Source files](https://github.com/runemadsen/programmingdesignsystems.com)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Seeing Theory, A visual introduction to probability and statistics, Daniel Kunin, 2017 [en]
A book about statistics and design.  
[http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/](http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/)

`interactive` `modifications open`

### Site Reliability Engineering, Betsy Beyer, Chris Jones, Jennifer Petoff and Niall Richard Murphy, 2017 [en]
A book about "Site Reliability Engineering", published by O'Reilly Media.  
[https://landing.google.com/sre/book.html](https://landing.google.com/sre/book.html)

`responsive`

### Web Push Book, Matt Gaunt, 2017 [en]
A book about web push notifications.  
[https://web-push-book.gauntface.com/](https://web-push-book.gauntface.com/)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### The Economy
A book about economics, build with [the Electric Book Workflow](https://electricbookworks.github.io/electric-book/).  
[https://core-econ.org/the-economy/](https://core-econ.org/the-economy/)

`responsive` `modular`

### A Trilingual Manuscript of the New Testament in Digital Research, Sara Schulthess, HumaReC, 2018 [en]
A book about Humanities research.  
[https://humarec.org/webbook/book/](https://humarec.org/webbook/book/)

`responsive` `versioned`

### Mythologies postphotographiques, Servanne Monjour, Parcours numériques, 2018 [fr]
A book about "post-photographic mythologies" (in the [Parcours numériques collection](http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca)).  
[http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca/introduction-158](http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca/introduction-158)

`multimodal`

### The First Six Books of The Elements of Euclid With Coloured Diagrams and Symbols, Oliver Byrne, Nicholas Rougeux, 2018 [en]
A book about mathematics.  
[https://c82.net/euclid/](https://c82.net/euclid/)

`responsive` `reprinting` `digitization`

### New Deal Photography: The Works of Dorothea Lange and Walker Evans, Judith Keller, Getty Publications, 2019 [en]
A starter theme for [Quire](https://gettypubs.github.io/quire/), a multiformat digital publishing framework developed by Getty Publications.  
[https://gettypubs.github.io/quire-starter/](https://gettypubs.github.io/quire-starter/)

`responsive` `modular` `multimodal`

### An In-Depth Study of Google Translate for 103 Languages, Martin Benjamin, 2019 [en]
"An In-Depth Study of Google Translate for 103 Languages".  
[https://www.teachyoubackwards.com/](https://www.teachyoubackwards.com/)

`responsive` `blog base`

### La social-démocratie est une chanson à boire, Otto Borg, Abrüpt, 2019 [fr]
A book about social democracy?  
[https://txt.abrupt.ch/antilivre/abrupt_borg_otto_la_social-democratie_est_une_chanson_a_boire_antilivre_dynamique.html](https://txt.abrupt.ch/antilivre/abrupt_borg_otto_la_social-democratie_est_une_chanson_a_boire_antilivre_dynamique.html)

`responsive` `single HTML file`

## Licence
[CC BY-SA](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/cc-by-sa-4.0/)

Commit message:

edit: new book HTML parser

README.md, after:

# Web books initiatives

A list of different initiatives of *web books*, listed chronologically (creation dates).

## Definition of the web book concept
A web book, or webbook, is a book readable in a browser: a collection of organised documents, structured in parts (like chapters), with some navigation tools (like a table of contents or TOC), readable on the web and linkable. There are different levels of technological efficiency: mobile friendly (aka *responsive*), offline readable, Progressive Web Application (PWA), etc.

## Documentation
Behind this list, a french article about the *web book* concept: [Le livre web, une autre forme du livre numérique](https://www.quaternum.net//2016/10/24/le-livre-web-une-autre-forme-du-livre-numerique/) by Antoine Fauchié, october 24th 2016.


## List of web book initiatives

### Adaptive Web Design, First Edition, Aaron Gustafson, 2011 [en]
A book about the progressive enhancement philosophy.  
[https://adaptivewebdesign.info/1st-edition/read/](https://adaptivewebdesign.info/1st-edition/read/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### HTML5 For Web Designers, Jeremy Keith, 2011 [en]
A book about HTML5.  
[https://html5forwebdesigners.com/](https://html5forwebdesigners.com/)

[Informations about the project](https://adactio.com/journal/10754)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### The Shape of Design, Frank Chimero, 2012 [en]
A book about design.  
[http://read.shapeofdesignbook.com/](http://read.shapeofdesignbook.com/)

`responsive`

### Getting Started With MailChimp, MailChimp, 2013 [en]
A guide about MailChimp, the email marketing service.  
[https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/getting-started-with-mailchimp/html/](https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/getting-started-with-mailchimp/html/)

MailChimp makes available a serie of guides, they are all web books: [https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/](https://mailchimp.com/resources/guides/)

`responsive` `one page`

### High Performance Browser Networking, Ilya Grigorik, 2013 [en]
A book about browser performance.  
[https://hpbn.co/](https://hpbn.co/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### Practical Typography, Matthew Butterick, 2013 [en]
A book about (practical) typography.  
[http://practicaltypography.com/](http://practicaltypography.com/)

`responsive`

### Designing for the Web, Mark Boulton, 2014 [en]
A book about web design, or *designing for the web*.  
[http://designingfortheweb.co.uk/](http://designingfortheweb.co.uk/)

`responsive` `EPUB`

### Eloquent JavaScript, Marijn Haverbeke, 2014 [en]
A book about JavaScript.  
[http://eloquentjavascript.net/](http://eloquentjavascript.net/)

`responsive`

### From Papyrus to Pixels, The Economist, 2014 [en]
A book about the future of the book.  
[http://www.economist.com/news/essays/21623373-which-something-old-and-powerful-encountered-vault](http://www.economist.com/news/essays/21623373-which-something-old-and-powerful-encountered-vault)

`responsive` `audio version` `skeuomorphism`

### Greek and Roman Political Ideas, Melissa Lane, 2014 [en]
A book about politic.  
[https://www.pelicanbooks.com/greek-and-roman-political-ideas](https://www.pelicanbooks.com/greek-and-roman-political-ideas)

Other web books in the Pelican collection: [https://www.pelicanbooks.com/](https://www.pelicanbooks.com/)

`responsive` `paywall`

### Le design des programmes, Anthony Masure, 2014 [fr]
Doctoral thesis of Anthony Masure.  
[http://www.softphd.com/](http://www.softphd.com/)

`responsive`

### Radius, 2014 [fr]
A collective and fictional book by the french publisher Walrus.  
[http://www.radius-experience.com/](http://www.radius-experience.com/)

`responsive` `paywall`

### The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web, Richard Rutter, 2014 [en]
A book about web typography.  
[http://webtypography.net/](http://webtypography.net/)

`responsive`

### Atom Flight Manual, Atom, 2015 [en]
A guide about the text/code editor Atom.io.  
[http://flight-manual.atom.io/](http://flight-manual.atom.io/)

`modifications open`

### Atomic Design, Brad Frost, 2015 [en]
A book about *atomic design*, a process of design from Brad Frost.  
[http://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/](http://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/)

[Repository](https://github.com/bradfrost/atomic-design).

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Le livre 010101, Marie Lebert, 2015 [fr]
A book about ebook history.  
[https://www.010101book.net/fr/](https://www.010101book.net/fr/)

[Informations about the project](https://www.quaternum.net/2015/10/26/creation-d-un-livre-web-le-livre-010101/), [source files](https://github.com/antoinentl/010101book.net).

`responsive` `offline readable`

### Professional Web Typography, Donny Truong, 2015 [en]
A book about web typography.  
[https://prowebtype.com/](https://prowebtype.com/)

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application`

### Sass Guidelines, Hugo Giraudel, 2015 [en+fr+...]
A book about Sass, in many languages.  
[https://sass-guidelin.es/](https://sass-guidelin.es/)

[Source files](https://github.com/HugoGiraudel/sass-guidelines).

`responsive` `one page` `modifications open`

### Startup Playbook, Sam Altman, 2015 [en]
A book about how to build a startup.  
[http://playbook.samaltman.com/](http://playbook.samaltman.com/)

`responsive`

### Designing for Performance, Lara Callender Hogan, 2016 [en]
A book about design and performance.  
[http://designingforperformance.com/](http://designingforperformance.com/)

[An article about the book's design process](http://larahogan.me/blog/coding-a-book/).

`responsive`

### Introduction to Metadata, Third Edition, Edited by Murtha Baca, 2016 [en]
A book about metadata.  
[http://www.getty.edu/publications/intrometadata/](http://www.getty.edu/publications/intrometadata/)

[Informations about the Getty Publications' workflow](http://blogs.getty.edu/iris/an-editors-view-of-digital-publishing/)

`responsive`

### MaintainableCSS, Adam Silver, 2016 [en]
A book about writing modular, scalable, and maintainable CSS.  
[http://maintainablecss.com/](http://maintainablecss.com/)

`responsive`

### Node.js, Bonnes pratiques pour la programmation JavaScript applicative, universelle et modulaire, Thomas Parisot, 2016 [fr]
A book about Node.js.  
[https://oncletom.io/node.js](https://oncletom.io/node.js)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Resilient web design, Jeremy Keith, 2016 [fr]
A book about web design.  
[https://resilientwebdesign.com/](https://resilientwebdesign.com/)

[Informations about the project](https://adactio.com/journal/11608), [source files](https://github.com/adactio/resilientwebdesign).

`responsive` `offline readable` `Progressive Web Application` `modifications open` `EPUB`

### Typography Handbook, Kenneth Wang, 2016 [en]
A book about best web typographic practices.  
[http://typographyhandbook.com/](http://typographyhandbook.com/)

`responsive` `one page`

### Un petit livre à l'usage des parents, pour mieux comprendre leurs enfants à travers les jeux., De la part de Lego, 2016 [fr]
Digitization of a Lego manual by [Thomas Gasc](https://methylbro.fr/).  
[http://lego.methylbro.fr/](http://lego.methylbro.fr/)

[Informations about the project](https://methylbro.fr/aventure/sudweb-2016-les-valeurs-de-lego/).

`responsive` `one page` `digitization`

### Vietnamese typography, Donny Truong, 2016 [en]
A book about vietnamese typography.  
[https://vietnamesetypography.com/](https://vietnamesetypography.com/)

`responsive` `offline readable`

### Programming Design Systems, Rune Madsen
A book about "the new foundations of graphic design".  
[https://programmingdesignsystems.com/](https://programmingdesignsystems.com/)

[Source files](https://github.com/runemadsen/programmingdesignsystems.com)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### Seeing Theory, A visual introduction to probability and statistics, Daniel Kunin, 2017 [en]
A book about statistics and design.  
[http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/](http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/)

`interactive` `modifications open`

### Site Reliability Engineering, Betsy Beyer, Chris Jones, Jennifer Petoff and Niall Richard Murphy, 2017 [en]
A book about "Site Reliability Engineering", published by O'Reilly Media.  
[https://landing.google.com/sre/book.html](https://landing.google.com/sre/book.html)

`responsive`

### Web Push Book, Matt Gaunt, 2017 [en]
A book about web push notifications.  
[https://web-push-book.gauntface.com/](https://web-push-book.gauntface.com/)

`responsive` `modifications open`

### The Economy
A book about economics, build with [the Electric Book Workflow](https://electricbookworks.github.io/electric-book/).  
[https://core-econ.org/the-economy/](https://core-econ.org/the-economy/)

`responsive` `modular`

### A Trilingual Manuscript of the New Testament in Digital Research, Sara Schulthess, HumaReC, 2018 [en]
A book about Humanities research.  
[https://humarec.org/webbook/book/](https://humarec.org/webbook/book/)

`responsive` `versioned`

### Mythologies postphotographiques, Servanne Monjour, Parcours numériques, 2018 [fr]
A book about "post-photographic mythologies" (in the [Parcours numériques collection](http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca)).  
[http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca/introduction-158](http://www.parcoursnumeriques-pum.ca/introduction-158)

`multimodal`

### The First Six Books of The Elements of Euclid With Coloured Diagrams and Symbols, Oliver Byrne, Nicholas Rougeux, 2018 [en]
A book about mathematics.  
[https://c82.net/euclid/](https://c82.net/euclid/)

`responsive` `reprinting` `digitization`

### New Deal Photography: The Works of Dorothea Lange and Walker Evans, Judith Keller, Getty Publications, 2019 [en]
A starter theme for [Quire](https://gettypubs.github.io/quire/), a multiformat digital publishing framework developed by Getty Publications.  
[https://gettypubs.github.io/quire-starter/](https://gettypubs.github.io/quire-starter/)

`responsive` `modular` `multimodal`

### An In-Depth Study of Google Translate for 103 Languages, Martin Benjamin, 2019 [en]
"An In-Depth Study of Google Translate for 103 Languages".  
[https://www.teachyoubackwards.com/](https://www.teachyoubackwards.com/)

`responsive` `blog base`

### La social-démocratie est une chanson à boire, Otto Borg, Abrüpt, 2019 [fr]
A book about social democracy?  
[https://txt.abrupt.ch/antilivre/abrupt_borg_otto_la_social-democratie_est_une_chanson_a_boire_antilivre_dynamique.html](https://txt.abrupt.ch/antilivre/abrupt_borg_otto_la_social-democratie_est_une_chanson_a_boire_antilivre_dynamique.html)

`responsive` `single HTML file`

### Idiosyncracies of the HTML parser, Simon Pieters, 2019 [en]
A book about the HTML parser.  
[https://htmlparser.info/](https://htmlparser.info/)

`responsive` `modifications open`

## Licence
[CC BY-SA](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/cc-by-sa-4.0/)
